A Deſcription of Buenos Ayres.

BEfore I ſay any thing of my Journy to Peru,
I will ſet down what I obſerv’d remarkable at
Buenos Ayres whilſt I tarry’d there.
The Air is pretty temperate, much as ’tis in Andalouſia,
but not quite ſo warm, the Rains fall almoſt as often
in Summer as Winter; and the Rain in ſultry weather uſually
breeds divers kinds of Toads, which are very common in this
Country, but are not venemous. 
The Town ſtands upon a riſing Ground on the fide of the River
de la Plata, a Muſquet ſhot from the Channel, in an Angle 
of Land made by a little Rivulet, call’d Riochuelo, 
which falls into the River a quarter of a League from the Town;
it contains 400 Houſes, has no encloſure, neither Wall nor Ditch,
and nothing to defend it but a little Fort of Earth ſurrounded with a Ditch,
which commands the River, and has Ten Iron Guns, the biggeſt of which
is a Twelve Pounder; there the Governor reſides who has but 150 
Men in Garriſon, which are form’d into Three Companies Commanded 
by Three Captains, whom he appoints at will, and indeed he changes 
them ſo often, that there is hardly a Wealthy Citizen but has been 
a Captain; theſe Companies are not always full, becauſe the Souldiers
are drawn by the cheapneſs of Living in thoſe Parts to deſert frequently,
notwithſtanding they endeavour to keep them in the Service by a large pay,
which is per diem Four Reals, worth 1 s. 6 d. Engliſh, and a Loaf of 3 d. ob.
which is as much as one Man can eat. But the Governor keeps 1200 tame Horſes
in a Plain thereabouts for his ordinary Service, and in cafe of neceſſity
to mount the Inhabitants of the Place, and form a ſmall Body of Cavalry.
Beſides this Fort, there is a little Baſtion at the Mouth of the Rivulet
wherein they keep Guard, there are but Two Iron-Guns mounted upon it,
each carrying a Three Pound Ball; this commands the place where the Barks
come aſhore to deliver or take in goods, which are liable to be viſited by
the Officers of the Baſtion when they lade and unlade. The Houſes of the Town
are built of Earth, becauſe there is but little Stone in all thoſe Parts up as
far as Peru; they are thatch’d with Canes and Straw, have no Stories,
all the Rooms are of a Floor, and are very Spacious; they have great
Court-yards, and behind their Houſes large Gardens full of Orange-trees,
Lemon-trees, Fig-trees, Apple-trees, Pear-trees, and other Fruit-trees,
with ſtore of Herbs, Cabbages, Onions, Garlick, Lettice, Peas, Beans,
and eſpecially their Melons are excellent, the Soil being very fat and good;
they live very commodiouſly, and except Wine, which is ſomething dear; they
have plenty of all forts of Victuals, as Beef, Veal, Mutton, Veniſon, Hares,
Coneys, Pullets, Ducks, Wild-geeſe, Partridges, Pidgeons, Turtles, and all
kind of Wild-fowl; and ſo cheap, that one may buy Partridges for a Penny a piece,
and the reſt proportionably. There are like wife abundance of Oſtriches
who herd in Flocks like Cattle, and tho’ they are good Meat, yet none but the
Savages eat of them. They make Umbrellas of their Feathers, which are very
commodious in the Sun; their Eggs are good, and every body eats of ’em, tho’
they ſay they are of hard Digeſtion. I ſaw one thing of theſe Creatures
very remarkable, and that is, while the Hen ſits upon the Eggs, they have
the Inſtinct or Foreſight to provide for their Young; ſo five or ſix days
before they come out of the Shell, they ſet an Egg in each of the four Corners
of the place where they ſit, theſe Eggs they break, and when they rot,
Worms and Maggots breed in ’em in prodigious numbers, which ſerve to nouriſh
the Young Oſtriches from the time they are hatch’d till they are able to
go farther for their ſuſtenance. The Houſes of the better fort of Inhabitants
are adorn’d with Hangings, Pictures, and other Ornaments and decent Moveables,
and all that are tollerably well to paſs are ferv’d in Plate, and have a great
many Servants, Blacks, Moulatos, Meſtices, Indians, Cabres, or Sambos, who are
all Slaves. The Negroes come from Guinea; the Mulatos are begotten by a Spaniard
upon a Black; the Meſtices are born of a Spaniard and an Indian, and the Sambos
of an Indian Man and a Meſtice, all diſtinguiſhable by their Colour and Hair.
They employ theſe Slaves in their Houſes, or to cultivate their Grounds, for they
have large Farms ſtock’d with Grain in abundance, as Wheat, Barley and Millet,
or to look after their Horſes and Mules, who feed upon nothing but Graſs all the
Year round, or to kill Wild-Bulls, or in fine to do any kind of Service.
All the Wealth of theſe Inhabitants conſiſts in Cattle, wich multiply ſo
prodigiouſly in this Province, that the Plains are quite cover’d with ’em,
particularly with Bulls, Cows, Sheep, Horſes, Mares, Mules, Aſſes, Swine, Deer,
and others, inſomuch that were it not for a vaſt number of Dogs, who devour
the Calves and other young Beaſts, they would over-run the Country, they make 
ſo great profit of the Skins and Hides of theſe Annimals, that a ſingle Inſtance
will be ſufficient to ſhew how far it might be improv’d by good hands:
The 22 Dutch Ships that we found at Buenos Ayres were each of them laden with
13 or 14000 Bull-hides at leaſt, which amount to above 300000 Livers, or 33500 l.
Sterling, bought by the Dutch at Seven or Eight Reals a piece, that is under
an Engliſh Crown, and ſold again in Europe for Twenty-five Shillings Engliſh
at leaſt. When I expreſs’d my aſtoniſhment at the ſight of ſuch an infinite
number of Cattle, they told me of a Stratagem ſometimes made uſe of, when
they apprehend a deſcent from any Enemies, that is matter of greater wonder,
and ’tis this; they drive ſuch a Herd of Bulls, Cows, Horſes and other Animals
to the Shore-ſide, that ’tis utterly impoſſible for any number of Men, even
tho’ they ſhould not dread the fury of thoſe Wild Creatures, to make their way
through ſo great a drove of Beaſts. The Firſt Inhabitants of this place, put
every one their mark upon thoſe they could catch, and turn’d ’em into their
encloſures, but they multiply’d fo faſt, that they were forc’d to let ’em looſe,
and now they go and kill them according as they want ’em, or have occaſion to
make up a quantity of Hides for Sale. At preſent they mark only thoſe Horſes
and Mules which they catch to tame and breed up for Service. Some Perſons make
a great Trade of fending them to Peru, where they yield 50 Patagons, or 
11 l. 13 s. 4 d. Sterling a pair. Moſt of the Dealers in Cattle are very Rich,
but of all the Trading People the moſt conſiderable are they that Traffick in
European Commodities. Many of whom are reputed worth 2 or 300000 Crowns, or 
67000 l. Sterling. So that a Merchant worth no more than 15 or 20000 Crowns is 
look’d upon as a mean Retailer; of theſe laſt there are near 200 Families in 
the Town, that make 500 Men bearing Arms, beſides their Slaves who are three 
times that Number, but are not to be reckon’d of any Defence, becauſe they are 
not allow’d to bear Arms: Thus the Spaniards, Portugueſe, and their Sons (of 
whom thoſe that are born upon the place are term’d Criolos, to diftinguiſh them
from the Natives of Spain) and ſome Meſtices are the Militia, which with the 
Souldiers in Garriſon, compoſe a Body of above 600 Men, as I computed them in 
ſeveral Muſters, for they draw out on Horſeback Three times a Year near the 
Town On Feſtival Days. I obferv’d there were many Old Men among them that did 
not carry Fire-arms, but only a Sword by their fide, a Lance in hand, and a 
Buckler at their ſhoulder: They are alſomoft of them Marry’d and Maſters of 
Families, and conſequently have no great ſtomach to Fighting. They love their
Eaſe and Pleaſure, and are entirely devoted to Venus; I confeſs they are in
ſome meaſure excuſable in this point, for moſt of their Women are extreamly 
pretty, well ſhaped, and clear skin’d; and withal fo faithful to their Husbands,
that no Temptations can prevail with them to looſen the Sacred Knot: But then
if their Husbands tranfgreſs, they are often puniſh’d with Poiſon or Dagger.
The Women are more in Number than the Men. Beſides Spaniards, there are a few
French, Hollanders, and Genoueſe, but all go for Spaniards, otherwiſe there
would be no dwelling for them there, eſpecially thoſe that differ in their
Religion from the Roman-Catholicks, becauſe the Inquiſition is ſettled there.
The Biſhop’s Revenue amounts to 3000 Patagons, or 700 l. Sterling per Annum.
His Dioceſs takes in this Town and Santa Fe, with the Farms belonging to both;
Eight or Ten Prieſts Officiate in the Cathedral, which is built of Earth as 
well as the Houſes. The Jeſuits have a College; the Dominicans, the Recolects,
and the Religious de la Mercy, have each a Convent. There is likewiſe an 
Hoſpital, but there are fo few poor People in theſe Parts that ’tis of little uſe.